GenieTest - Functional Test Generation Tool using the Power of AI
Introduction
Architecture Diagram
Data Generation and Cleaning
MCP Host and Server
Components Supported
Pre-requisites
Prompt Practices
How to Use?
Future Enhancements
Make Test Generation Better and More Reliable with GenieTest!

Introduction
Helps QE engineers by fast tracking the process of writing test automation scripts!
Why is Cursor not enough?
Does not have project specific context
Can’t control what is and is not prompted to the user
Not very reliable, especially with large projects
We overcome this problem of Cursor by the following:
MCP Server
Cursor Rules (Prompt Engineering)
Extension for Cursor
Creating a custom dataset for RAG!

Architecture Diagram

Data Generation and Cleaning
Chunked data from Testrunner and TAF repositories to create the following databases:
Test Functions Database: Test functions are stored here along with their description, steps
and functional dependencies.
Helper Functions Database: Helper functions from the Submodules are stored here along
with their usage patterns.
Utilised OpenAI integration and Batch API for initial data chunking and extraction.
Manual quality assurance of the generated data was performed to ensure consistency,
maintain uniform formatting and eliminate noises.
Embeddings were generated using a hosted Snowflake Arctic model.

MCP Host and Server
MCP or Model Context Protocol is used to fetch context from external databases to your LLM.
The MCP Host is the Cursor IDE. It consists of:
The MCP Client (Cursor Agent)
Cursor Rules - Added on top of the context to control how the tools are used and to maintain
required testing standards (both generic and component specific)

Access to the files of the test repository
The Terminal
The MCP Server has the tools that are used for test generation. The following are the tools of
GenieTest:
Steps Generator: Breaks down user input into structured steps via an LLM call
Display Steps: Displays the steps to the user for review
Show Closest Test: Embeds the steps and vector searches into the Test functions database
to find the closest test to exist
Generate Code: Uses the closest test/creates a new test in same class/creates a new test
in new class according to the user's preference. Vector searches each step into the Helper
functions database to fetch helper functions that can be used for code generation. It gives
this as a context to Cursor to write the new test.
Review and Edit Tool: Given the code and instructions to edit an existing test, this tool
fetches closest tests along with helper functions that can be used. This new context is used
by Cursor to edit the code.

Components Supported
GenieTest’s tools can be tested on the following components:
Eventing
XDCR
GSI
We are working on extending support to more components in the coming days!

Pre-requisites
VS Code version 1.90.0 or higher
Active workspace with a Test Repository (Testrunner or TAF)
Running MCP Server instance

Prompt Practices
Better your prompts are, better the generated code is. The following are a few prompt practices
we advise you to follow:
A well written test description with clarity on the test environment, functionalities,
resources and constraints if any.

Include keywords and phrases to make sure that the MCP Client (Cursor) fetches the
appropriate tools from the MCP Server. “Can you generate steps for this test?”, “Show the
Closest Test”, “Generate Code for this Test” are sample phrases that can help the MCP
Client fetch appropriate tools.

How to Use?
Install the Cursor Extension - to auto-configure the MCP Server and Cursor Rules
Go to Cursor > Cursor Settings > MCP and make sure that the genie-test MCP is enabled
Make sure you are on the ‘Agent’ mode on Cursor as this best supports the MCP Tools
Go ahead and give prompts to describe the tests that you want our tool to generate.
View our Demo Videos to get better clarity on prompt practices and how GenieTest’s tools are
used.

Future Enhancements
Extend to other components of Testrunner and TAF
Optimisations to the Review and Edit Tool
Better conf support
Updating the databases
Jira Integration

Make Test Generation Better and More Reliable with GenieTest!
Do try our tool out and let us know your thoughts!

